Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.Data structures are used to store and organize data in a way that allows for efficient insertion,
deletion, and retrieval of data.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A.There are various operations that can be performed on different data structures such as:
-Insertion, deletion, searching, traversal, sorting, merging and splitting.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A.There are several areas where data structures are applied extensively:
-Database Management Systems, Operating Systems, Compilers, Computer Graphics, Data Analysis.

what is an Array?
A.Array is a variable that can hold multiple values at the same time.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A.The main differences between tha Array and ArrayList is that an Array is limited which means once its created we cannot change its
type or number of elements, whereas in ArrayList we can make some changes in the number of elements and also the type, so it is
more flexible and easy to use.

what is LinkedList?
A.A LinkedList is a data structure that consists of a set of nodes, where each node stores a reference
to an object and a reference to the next node in the list.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A.inserting or deleting elements from a linked list is generally faster than inserting or deleting elements from an array.

what is queue?
A. the queue is a type of data structure in the Java that stores elements of the same kind.

what is stack?
A.A stack is a linear data structure that follows a last-in-first-out (LIFO) principle. It is a collection of elements.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A.FIFO stands for "First In, First Out" and refers to a type of data structure or system where the first
element added is also the first one to be removed.
-LIFO stands for "Last In, First Out" and refers to a type of data structure or system where the last
element added is also the first one to be removed.

what is the order of complexity?
A.the order of complexity is a classification of algorithms according to how their running
time or space requirements grow as the input size grows.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.The best way to search for an element from an array is when the element is at the first index of the array.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.the worst case to search an element from an array is when the element is not present in the array.

what is tree in data structure?
A.A tree is a data structure that represents a hierarchical relationship between data.

what is graph in data structure?
A.A graph in data structure is a non-linear data structure consisting of a set of
nodes.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A.The main difference between Hashtable and HashMap is that Hashtable is synchronized and thread-safe, while HashMap is not.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A.In an RDBMS (Relational Database Management System), the major data structures used are tables and indexes.
-In a network data model, the major data structure used is the graph.
-In a hierarchical data model, the major data structure used is the tree.

How HashMap works in java?
A.In Java, a HashMap is a data structure that maps keys to values.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is an exception that occurs when an array has been accessed with an illegal index.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A.In order to cpy an array into another array you can use these following ways:
Using the for loop, using the 'Array.copyOf()','clone()', 'System.arraycopy()'.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A. The main differences between an Array and linked list are in size, memory and accessibility. An Array has a limited size,
takes a small space and  can be accessed faster, while linked list is changeable, takes a larger space and require various
steps to access it which make it slower.

What is DFS and BFS?
A.DFS (Depth First Search) is an algorithm for traversing a tree or graph data structure where it starts at the root node,
and explores as far as possible along each branch before backtracking.
- BFS (Breadth First Search) is an algorithm for traversing a tree or graph data structure where it starts at the root node and explores the neighbor nodes first,
before moving to the next level neighbors.


What is Recursion?
A.A recursion Method is a method that is calling itself.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A.Linear data structures are data structures that store data in a sequential manner.
-Non linear  use relationships between data elements to organize and store the data.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A.Big-O notation is a mathematical notation used to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A.Bubble sort: O(n^2)
  Selection sort: O(n^2)
  Insertion sort: O(n^2)
  Merge sort: O(n*log(n))
  Quick sort: O(n*log(n))
  Heap sort: O(n*log(n))
  Radix sort: O(n*k)o


Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


